In this lesson you'll learn
what wildcards are,
when you can use them
and the various types of wildcards.
Finally you get to look over my shoulder
as I run through several examples
of how to use wildcards on
an actual Linux system.
A wildcard is a character or a string
that is used to match file
and directory names.
You can use wildcards to
create search patterns
that when expanded will return
a list of matching files
and directories.
Sometimes wildcards are referred
to as globs or glob patterns.
Globbing is the act of
expanding a wildcard
into the list of matching files
and directories.
Wildcards can be used in conjunction
with most Linux commands.
If a command accepts a file
or directory as an argument,
then you can use a wildcard
in this argument
to specify a file or set of files.
You find yourself using
wildcards with commands
like ls, rm, cp, mv, and others.
Here are the 2 main wildcards.
They are the asterisk and
the question mark.
The asterisk or star as
I like to call it,
matches zero or more characters,
it matches anything.
By itself, it's not really that useful,
but when you combine it with
other parts of file or directory names
that you're looking for,
it becomes powerful.
For example, we could use *.txt
to find all the files
that end in .txt.
If you wanted to list all the files
that start with the letter a,
then use a*.
If you want to find all the files
that start with an a and end in .txt,
then use a*.txt.
The question mark matches
exactly 1 character.
If you want to find all the files
that only have 1 character
preceeding .txt,
then use ?.txt.
To match all the 2 letter files
that begin with an a,
use the letter a followed by a ?.
To match all the files that start with a,
and then are followed by
exactly one more character,
and then end in .txt,
use a?.txt.
You can use something called
a character class
to create very specific search patterns.
Start with the left bracket,
then list one or more characters
you want to match
and then end with the right bracket.
For example, if you wanted to match
a one character long file name
that was a vowel,
you would use [aeiou].
If you wanted to match files
that start with ca
followed by either an 'n' or a 't',
followed by zero or more characters,
then use 'ca[nt]*'.
This pattern will match files named,
can, cat, candy and catch.
If you want to exclude
characters in a match,
use an exclamation mark.
For example, if you
wanted to find all the files
that do not start with the vowel,
use [!aeiou]*.
'baseball' and 'cricket' match this pattern
because the first character is not an
a, e, i, o, or u.
When using character classes,
you can create a range by separating
two characters with a hyphen.
If you want to match all the
characters from a to g,
use [a-g].
If you want to match the numbers
- 3, 4, 5 and 6,
use [3-6].
Instead of creating your own ranges,
you can use predefined named
character classes.
These named character classes represent
the most commonly used ranges.
Alpha matches alphabetic letters.
This means it matches both -
lower and upper case letters.
alnum or alnum matches
alphanumeric characters.
This means it matches alpha and digits.
Said another way, it matches any
uppercase or lowercase letters
or any decimal digits.
'digit' represents the numbers
and decimal from 0 to 9.
'lower' matches any lowercase letters.
'space' matches wide space.
This means characters such as spaces,
tabs and newline characters.
'upper' only matches uppercase letters.
What if you want to match one
of the wildcard characters?
Then you would escape
that character with a \.
To escape the wildcard, simply place
the \ before the wildcard character.
If you wanna make your life easier,
don't name your files with
question marks and asterisks.
However you may end up receiving a
file with these characters in them,
so you need to know
how to handle them.
For example, if you wanted
to match all the files
that end with a question mark,
then use *\?
An example match would be
a file named, done?